{'title': 'Conflict, economic crises, and climate change converge to create breeding ground for fresh cholera outbreak in Yemen', 'body': 'An alarming rise in the number of recorded cholera cases in Yemen in recent weeks risks becoming an epidemic, if action is not taken quickly, Oxfam warned today.In recent weeks, cholera cases have been recorded in six governorates in the South and East of Yemen, as well as in two governorates in the North. Between 2 October and 3 December 1336 suspected cases and 11 associated deaths have been reported in the South of the country. Lack of reporting in many areas, means the actual figures are likely to be much higher.Cholera is caused by lack of clean water and sanitation, and is highly contagious, especially in overcrowded places. Migrant communities have been disproportionately affected, reflecting the increased challenges they face in accessing clean water and health services.For Yemenis, the cases have sparked fears there might be a return to the levels of cholera not seen since the epidemic of 2016-2021, when there were 2.5 million recorded cases and 4000 related deaths. In 2019, 93 per cent of all cholera cases in the world were recorded in Yemen.By 2021, the number of cases had significantly reduced, thanks in large part to a successful vaccination programme. But lack of funding, particularly around vaccine provision, risks undoing this good work. Naser, 37, from Abs district in the Hajjah governorate, lost his daughter to suspected cholera:‘’I lost one of my daughters to acute diarrhea and vomiting, and I fear for my other two girls. When I took my little three-month-old girl to the hospital she stayed there for some days, and then they asked us to take her home. The next day, her situation got worse. After four days of suffering, she passed away in my arms.’’Twenty million Yemenis are now in need of health assistance, with a health sector only 40 per cent[1] funded and ravaged by the effects of almost nine years of war. Almost half of Yemen’s health facilities are either partially functional or non-functional due to staff, funding and power shortages, as well as lack of medicines, supplies and equipment.In Hadramawt, Al Mahrah, and Socotra archipelago governorates, over 18 000 households have recently been affected by flooding from Cyclone Tej, badly damaging health and sanitation infrastructure, as well as peoples’ homes and livelihoods. Over 15 million people in Yemen are without access to clean water, with women and children disproportionately affected.Abdulwasea Mohammed, Campaigns, Advocacy and Media Manager for Oxfam in Yemen, said: “The spike in cholera cases should be a wake-up call for Yemen’s leaders and the international community at large. Cholera can and should be easily prevented and treated, but without proper investment in the health system, access to clean water and sanitation facilities and vaccines, ordinary Yemenis will continue to pay the price.“Cholera thrives in times of conflict. Almost nine years of war in Yemen have decimated the health system and robbed many Yemenis of their lives and livelihoods. We urgently need a just and sustainable peace in order to allow the country to start to rebuild and recover.”Oxfam is calling for the international community to provide adequate funding of life-saving aid, particularly for health, resilience and livelihoods programming, and increased efforts to negotiate a lasting comprehensive peace in Yemen.Ends'}
{'title': 'USA – Fatalities and Evacuations After Powerful Storm Triggers Flooding in Eastern States', 'body': 'A powerful storm hit the East Coast of the United States over the last few days, causing widespread devastation and damages as it moved north and into Atlantic Canada on 19 December 2023.Heavy rain from the storm caused rivers to break their banks in multiple states from South Carolina to Maine, flooding roads, damaging homes and prompting rescues and evacuations. River levels remain high in many areas.The severe weather caused several fatalities, including 3 people who died in separate incidents in flood waters in South Carolina, New York and Pennsylvania. As of 19 December, 2 people were reported missing in floods in Maine.Strong winds also caused major damages, including at least 2 fatalities in Massachusetts and Maine. At one point more than 800,000 were left without power across the region.Heavy rain combined with high tides and storm surge flooded areas along the South Carolina from Charleston to Myrtle Beach on 16 to 17 December 2023. A daily record high of 3.89 inches (98.81 mm) of rain was recorded in Downtown Charleston.Streets of Charleston were under 2 feet (60 cm) of water in some areas following the rain and a historic high tide of 9.86 feet on 17 December 2023. Charleston Fire Department rescued at least 40 people from flood waters. Emergency crews were also called on to rescue dozens of motorists stranded by flooding in Georgetown. One person died when a vehicle was trapped in flood waters Mount Pleasant.Heavy rain from the storm caused severe problems in parts of New York state. One person died in flood waters in New York State after a vehicle was swept into the Catskill Creek near Leeds, authorities reported.Elsewhere in the state, flooding prompted evacuations in New Windsor and Highland Falls. Areas of Congers, Clarkstown and Orangetown areas are flooded, Rockland County officials said. The NWS reported 4.85 inches (123.19 mm) of rain in 24 hours to 18 December in Spring Valley, Rockland County.Washed out roads left communities in the Adirondacks mountain range isolated, including Keene town in central Essex County. The Ausable River at Au Sable Forks, around 14 miles (23 km) north of Keene exceeded Major Flood Stage on 18 December.Storm surge caused flooding along the New Jersey coastline, in particular in Bay Head and Mantoloking.Meanwhile, heavy rain triggered flash flooding and caused river to break their banks in multiple locations of the state. The swollen Passaic and Pompton rivers prompted evacuations in Lincoln Park where 5.18 inches (131.57 mm) of rain fell in 24 hours to 18 December.Flooding from the Passaic also prompted evacuations in Little Falls and caused severe damage in the nearby city of Paterson, where officials declared a state of emergency on 18 December.The Passaic River at Little Falls exceeded Major Flood stage on 19 December and has continued to rise since then.The flooding Rockway River damaged homes in Dover and Denville, while the Pompton River flooded areas of Pequannock. Flooding was also reported in Highland Park where the Raritan River broke its banks.Local media reported the swollen Perkiomen Creek flooded areas of Montgomery County including Lower Providence Township. Further west, one person died after in hospital after being rescued from floods near Ephrata in Lancaster County.Dozens of homes were evacuated in the village of Moretown, Vermont, after the nearby Mad River flooded.Residents of the state capital Montpelier feared a repeat of the catastrophic flooding of July 2023 after levels of the Winooski River started to rise. Fortunately the river crested at Moderate Flood stage on 18 December.Around 17 people had to be rescued from flooding in Conway, New Hampshire, after the Saco River broke it banks. Flood was so severe local fire crews were unable to reach all the victim and 4 people had to be rescued by New Hampshire Army National Guard Black Hawk helicopter.Levels of the Saco River jumped more than 13 feet in the space of a few hours on 18 December.In Maine, the the Kennebec River has continued to rise since heavy rain from 17 December. As of 18 December, officials called for residents near the river in Fairfield to evacuate their home. Flooding has also affected the city of Augusta where some roads were closed.The Kennebec River at North Sidney, south of Fairfield, was above Major Flood stage as of 19 December 2023.Further south, the flooding Androscoggin River prompted evacuations in the city of Lewiston and neighbouring Auburn.In western Maine, the flooding Swift River, a tributary of the Androscoggin, swept away a vehicle trying to cross a bridge from Mexico to Rumford on 18 December 2023. Two people were rescued and were treated for hypothermia but 2 other occupants of the vehicle were not found at the time and have been reported missing.MaineMassachusettsNew HampshireNew JerseyNew YorkPennsylvaniaSouth CarolinaVermont'}
{'title': 'Dial A for anticipate: WFP helps families in Somalia as floods hit food and drive hunger', 'body': 'How WFP and Government agencies work together to counter the devastating cycle of climate-change-propelled cycle of droughts and floodsIt’s a week since Bashir Abdi, his wife and nine children fled to the Iftin camp for displaced people, outside the town of Beletweyne in central Somalia.“I was forced to move by the flash floods. In the middle of the night, water started to pour through the village,” he says.“[But] the warning messages were good,” he adds of assistance he received from the World Food Programme (WFP). “We were told everything: what to do, where to go, and to collect important household items. And the cash vouchers helped.”Abdi is one of 700,000 people driven from their homes by deadly floods sweeping southern and central Somalia, made worse by El Niño weather patterns. He and his family evacuated to the higher ground of Iftin from nearby Wadi Shabelle, now a ghost town of empty tents mired in stagnant water and stinking mud.“The most vulnerable people in Somalia have been hit once again by climate change,” says Laura Turner, WFP Somalia Deputy Country Director. “We need to provide communities with the tools and knowledge to weather these extremes to break the crisis-driven cycle of hunger that has afflicted Somalia for too long.”As soon as rainfall forecasts passed key thresholds, WFP sent pre-emptive cash transfers to over 200,000 people in anticipated flood zones along the Juba and Shabelle rivers. The money enabled them to pay for their evacuation or buy vital supplies once they had moved.WFP also used local radio, loudspeakers and cell phone voice messages to warn hundreds of thousands more people about the coming deluge and to guide them in their planning.These initiatives can mean fewer people needing urgent humanitarian assistance when disaster strikes. For many of those in Iftin, it has come just in time.“I heard the radio messages, and I received US$70 … I bought rice, spaghetti and oil,” says 80-year-old Madina Odawye, who moved to the camp with her three grandchildren just a few days before Abdi. “It helped us. It came at the right time.”Today, Iftin bustles with activity. Other flood evacuees are taking advantage of a brief lull in the rains to build temporary shelters from whatever they can find: tree branches, old fabric, corrugated iron. But, overhead, the sky is already darkening again. The rains are coming back and the waters are rising day by day.A few days from now, much of Beletweyne town itself will be flooded. The roads are already full of families fleeing in trucks and donkey carts, piled high with furniture and often with children perched on top. The people in Iftin can only hope their new homes will stay safely above water.This devastating cycle of drought and flood is tragically recurrent in Somalia. Climate change is making things even worse – the seasonal droughts and floods are growing more extreme, driving some of the worst hunger levels in over a decade. Over 4 million people, a quarter of the population, face acute hunger by the end of 2023.“This is the fourth time we suffered from floods, and the fourth time we came here,” says Abdi. “But we were not expecting these kinds of flash floods…we were not aware that our valley would flood so quickly [this time].”“The price of food is increasing, and there is less available,” he adds. “And with these floods, everybody is frustrated. There are fewer opportunities to work.”'}
{'title': 'Powerful earthquake hits the Philippines', 'body': 'CARE International is deeply concerned for the safety and mental health of the vulnerable communities, especially women and children, in Surigao del Sur, the southern part of the Philippines, following a powerful 7.5-magnitude earthquake that struck the region on Saturday 2 December 2023, at 10:37 PM (Philippine Standard Time).Widespread destructionThe earthquake caused widespread damage, with tremors felt across Mindanao and parts of Visayas. The epicenter was located 25 kilometers deep, prompting a tsunami warning that led to immediate evacuations in coastal areas. Although the waves were minimal, and the alert was canceled, over 659 aftershocks, including several with magnitudes ranging from 1.4 to 6.2, have rattled the region since the quake.There was also significant damage to infrastructure, forcing people to leave their homes and stay in evacuation centers. The full extent of the damage is still unfolding, but initial reports indicate that 2,600 people have been displaced and many others have been injured."CARE and partners are on the ground across affected areas to assess the damage and prepare to assist the hardest-hit communities," said Reiza S. Dejito, CARE Philippines Director. "We are especially concerned about how this earthquake and its aftershocks have affected vulnerable groups, particularly women and children. Initial reports indicate psychological distress and panic among the affected population, as many residents are experiencing an earthquake of such severity for the first time. It has also been noted that numerous children were visibly distressed due to the incident.”In the wake of the earthquake, priority needs include mental health support for distressed residents, particularly children; food assistance for displaced families; shelter repair and reconstruction; and essential household items. Additionally, protecting vulnerable groups in evacuation areas to ensure their safety, privacy, and access to specific needs is of paramount importance.CARE\'s work in the PhilippinesCARE has been in the Philippines since 1949. The country is highly exposed to climate emergencies and geologic hazards including earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.CARE Philippines has supported relief efforts to many emergencies across the country, including the Super Typhoon Haiyan in 2013, the earthquake in Surigao city in 2017, Mayon volcano eruption in 2018, Super Typhoon Goni in 2020, and most recently typhoon Odette in in 2021.For media inquiries, please contact Iolanda Jaquemet, Senior Humanitarian Communications Coordinator, CARE International via: jaquemet@careinternational.org.'}